Origins of Linux 


Ken Thompson and Dennis Ritchie, and a group of other researched continued working with the project’s core principles. 


It also MINIX an educational version of the OS, and Linus Torvalds inspiration to develop Linux. 


Linus Torvalds a Finnish undergraduate student frustrated with the MINIX OS licensing. Later announced on August 25, 1991 to a MINIX user group that he was developing his own operating system that was similar to MINIX. He initially developed the Linux Kernel using the GNU C compiler on MINIX. This quickly became a unique project, with Torvalds and core set of developers who released version 1.0 of the kernel in 1994. 


BASH (short for Bourne-Again Shell) shell. 

Please note, depending on the distribution (aka Distro) you could be using another shell (i.e. csh, tcsh, ksh, ash, zsh, etc.) 



Programs are commonly stored in one of the following paths, /bin , /usr/bin , /sbin , /usr/sbin . 





Linux has four types of accounts: root, System, Normal, Network. 



By default, all permissions (even if you’re signed in as root) start out running under basic user account security (so you can run commands like: ls , cp , rm , etc.). A command that needs elevated permissions, requires that you put the prefix command sudo in front of it (i.e. sudo command -options ). After you press Enter, you will then be required to type your admin password and press Enter again. 






For example, if you type the command ls it will give you basic file information in a directory. If you type the command and option ls -l , it will give you additional information. If you add additional options such as ls -al shows an additional set of files that were not shown earlier. 


Example of Linux Tree Structure 
/ /bin /boot /dev /etc /home /lib 




Updating the system  (Why)

(you should make sure it is up-to-date, by installing the latest libraries, application fixes and security patches. From a security perspective this is very important as it can help keep your system from getting compromised.)

For Debian based distributions, run the following commands (requires root permission): 
sudo apt-get update sudo apt-get upgrade 
 
